# Reading Summary
Max Cohn

I am coming into this course with a very brief and outdated brush with frontend development. I gained most of my experience with HTML and JavaScript early on in grade school, when I took a book on HTML out of the school library. Since then, it seems like a good amount has changed. 

When I was that young, I had no understanding of the different types of developers that are involved with web design now. From this reading, I learned that there are generally 5 main groups that work on websites. Those are: Frontend, Backend, Fullstack, and DevOps. Interestingly, Fullstack is a combination of Frontend and Backend. I found myself somewhat drawn to the idea of learning Fullstack, because I enjoy making changes and seeing directly the effects (frontend), and I also enjoy getting into the weeds of how a system should work programmatically (backend). I know that this class does not cover it much, but honestly I even find myself draw to the dark basements and concrete rooms of a DevOps engineer; I find the server-side work to be compelling as well.

I did find that a good amount of what I learned in elementary school still applies. I was reminded that CSS is used to make HTML pretty, that JavaScript is used for making things interactive, and that much of this can be made very easy through online tools like WordPress. One thing that was honestly a big surprise to me was that SQL was in such high demand back in 2017. I always thought of it as the language used by banks and big data companies, but it seems almost integral to the backend of a large number of websites.

I also came to realize that I had heard many of the terms related to web development, i.e. Bootstrapping, ReactJS, NodeJS, jQuery, SQL, etc. and I am excited to learn more about the role of a few of these languages and paradigms. This reading also excited me about this course, as I am hopeful that understanding how to create GUI's will enable me to create apps that I want to build with far more ease than before. I have looked into learning things like Electron and ReactJS, but they always were a bit daunting since I had not touched web design for years. Lastly, I am glad to see that studying web design and frontend development does not lock me out of the world of creating cool things with code. I had some worries that this class might only include simple HTML and CSS, so it is exciting to see that we will be learning much more than that. 
